Hi, I'm Armando. Welcome to Iron Sharpen's Iron.
We've all been there.
We're out in the ministry trying to start conversations with people.
But for many of us, it's not that easy.
Just the idea of talking to a stranger can be intimidating.
Personally, I'm not someone who finds it easy
to just walk up to a stranger and start a conversation.
But with some effort and time,
I've learned a few methods that have helped me to overcome my fears.
Today, we're going to concentrate on just one of them,
using questions to start and maintain a conversation.
And perhaps, by the time we're done, you'll realize like I have
that it's not as difficult as it seems.
Either. Well, we're asking our neighbors a question
and we'd like to know your opinion.
Have you ever asked yourself what we need to do to have a happy family?
No, I'm not married.
Oh, okay. Well, we have this brochure that talks about...
Okay, three things.
First, the brother was nervous.
When we're nervous, we make the person we're speaking with nervous too.
Of course, it's difficult not to be nervous,
but if we concentrate too much on how we feel,
we can forget that what we want to do is simply start a conversation.
There's no pressure. Just keep it casual.
Second, yes, the brother did ask a question,
but the question was irrelevant to the householder.
It's usually better to ask something that will encourage the person
to participate in the conversation,
but will also help us to discern what interests them.
Third, one of the biggest fears we have is
what if my question doesn't connect with them?
This can throw us off.
We feel like we have nowhere to go.
It would have been better to have a flexible approach
that would allow us to react according to what the person says.
Let's try it again, but this time,
let's approach the situation a little differently.
In the first few pages of our Bible,
there are 20 questions that we can use in the ministry.
Why not start familiarizing ourselves with them?
We can choose one or two subjects that we like
so that we will be ready when an opportunity rises.
Let's see how our brother does this in the next demonstration.
Hi there. We're asking our neighbors a question,
and we'd love to know your opinion.
What would you say is something that causes you a lot of stress?
Personally, I worry a lot about money and paying all my bills.
Yeah, I think that's the case for many of us.
Did you know that the Bible explains something
that can help us specifically with that anxiety?
Really?
In the front of my Bible,
there are 20 questions that many of us ask
and that the Bible answers.
Notice question 16.
How can you cope with anxiety?
Notice what this scripture says in Proverbs 21-5.
The plans of the diligent.
Much better, right?
Did you notice that when the person answered,
the brother simply opened his Bible to the questions
and found a scripture that allowed him to continue the conversation?
And he didn't try to hide what he was doing.
He showed the person the tool he was using.
He felt confident that however the person responded,
he would be able to find a useful scripture
that would keep the conversation moving.
So that went pretty well.
But maybe you're thinking
it almost never happens like that for me.
Perhaps in our case,
it's more like this.
Hi there.
We're asking our neighbors a question
and we'd love to know your opinion.
What would you say is something that causes you a lot of stress?
People coming to my door and asking me questions.
I understand.
I'm not a fan of that myself.
But have you ever wondered why we do this?
Now at this point,
the householder may shut down the conversation completely.
And that's fine.
We're not trying to pressure anyone into talking.
But that second question that the publisher asks.
And the fact that he was calm, that he was relaxed,
and that he was not taking himself too seriously,
all of that can open the door for the conversation to continue.
To sum up,
remember,
first,
be calm and relaxed.
We're just trying to start a conversation.
Smile.
Be friendly.
Second,
ask a question that brings a person into the conversation
and allows us to discover what interests them.
And third,
don't be nervous about where the conversation could lead.
With our 20 questions for the ministry,
we can be sure that we'll find an appropriate text
that will keep the conversation directed towards spiritual matters.
This is one of the methods that has helped me,
and I hope that it can help you too.
As you see for yourself how ironed, sharpens iron,